# Response Paper

## What is a historical gazetteer, and what’s its purpose?

According to the Library of Congress, a historical gazetter is “an alphabetical list of geographic names that are currently applied or have been applied to places and features of the landscape. They can also cover feature names on ocean bottoms as well as on planetary bodies and the moon.” The purpose of a historical gazetter is to be used in conjunction with a map or atlas to enable researchers to identify sites and feature names that are currently or no longer in use. 

## How does Pleiades differ from its printed predecessor, Barrington Atlas?

Pleiades differs from its printed predecessor, Barrington Atlas in a number of ways. Most obviously, the Barrington Atlas is a printed publication, whereas Pleiades is an online project. The Barrington Atlas is an atlas of ancient Europe, Asia, and North Africa from about arachic Greece to Late Antiquity. Published in 2000, this atlas is a collection of 102 topographic maps of up to date physical and covered features of each area using all of the literal, epigraphic, and archaeological data available before publication. Pleiades is different in that it is an online database that gives more information than the Barrington Atlas is capable of providing (albeit in a smaller date range and geographic area). Pleiades has extensive coverage for the Greek and Roman world, and is expanding into Ancient Near Eastern, Byzantine, Celtic, Early Islamic, and Early Medieval geography. For each site Pleiades gives exact latitude and longitude for their representative point, other names of the site (if applicable), connections, place type, references, initial provenance, details, photos of the site (if available) and a satelite image. Pleiades also gives more recent information on each site, and has the capability to be adjusted as soon as new information regarding a site is released. Pleiades is searchable and individuals can contribute to the project.
