## Weekly Response paper -- Explore (in ~200 words) the impact of artificial intelligence on academic research and education. Discuss both the opportunities and challenges AI presents in the academic setting, and consider how it may shape the future of learning and knowledge creation.
Artificial intelligence is both a blessing and a curse in the context of research and education. AI is beneficial as it can allow for new or more efficient forms of research such as more complex and advanced simulation modeling to better analyze both ancient and future civilizations. Until recently, historians were limited to using simulation modeling based off of factors that they believed to be important considering the current understanding of the past, and used complex math formulas in their simulation code. However with AI (or Artificial General Intelligence, A.G.I.), it could be possible to let the model decide for itself what might be more important given certain conditions. While AI can enhance how research is done, many people are beginning to use AI in place of research. Students at every school level are beginning to use AI to write their essays, compile their research, summarize their readings, and solve their math problems. This reliance on AI during the years students are supposed to be learning to join industries and fields that make up society will lead to less educated individuals and worse academic and physical institutions. In the long run, universities will have less students, more niche fields will die out, artistic creativity and academic curiosity will be replaced by “efficient” programs, and the physical infrastructure of the world will weaken. AI also reinforces harmful biases in the social, political, and economic landscapes that can lead, and have already led, to real world problems.
